
# Automata simulator

A simple DFA and NFA simulator written in Python. This project was made as a Theory Of Computation assignment at UENP.

In order to simulate an DFA or an FNA, you'll need three files:
- ```automata.aut``` This is a JSON file that contains all the information about the automata: the initial state, the final state(s) and the transitions.

    It must follow this pattern, otherwise the program will fail:
    
```json
{
  "initial": 0,
  "final" : [2],
  "transitions": [
    {
      "from": "0",
      "to": "0",
      "read": "a"
    },
    {
      "from": "0",
      "to": "1",
      "read": "a"
    },
    {
      "from": "1",
      "to": "2",
      "read": "b"
    }
  ]
}
```

- ```automata_input.in``` This is a CSV file that contains words that go through the automata. Separeted by semicolons is the word itself and the expected result for this word (if it should or shouldn't be a valid word according to the automata).

    It must follow this pattern, otherwise the program will fail:

```CSV
aab;1
aa;0
aaaa;0
```
- ```automata_output.out``` This is also a CSV file. It is very similar to the input file, but in adition it contais the result obtained from the automata and the time it took to process the word (in nanoseconds). 

    This file will be generated by the program:

```CSV
aab;1;1;8151
aa;0;0;3580
aaaa;0;0;3910
```


## Acknowledgements

In order to run this program, you'll need to have [python](https://www.python.org/) version 3.12.3 or superior installed.

In order to understand the process done by this code, it is very recommended that you have some basic knowledge about [automatas](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aut%C3%B4mato).
## Installation

Clone this repo

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/gabrielwitor/automata_simulator
```
    
## Usage/Examples

Using a terminal, open ```automata_simulator```
```bash
  cd automata_simulator
```
Now, type this command into your terminal:
```bash
  python automaton.py <automata-archive.aut> <automata-input.in> <automata-output.out>
```
Write the arguments carefully otherwise the program won't run. Note that ```<automata-output.out>``` don't need to be an existing file (The program will create it if it doesn't exist).
## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

